hemispheres are full of accounts detailing rhe movements of te new comet." "true," asserted the count. "i can quite imagine
that we are occasioning on small excitement in all the chief observatories." "ay, more than that," said the lieutenant; "our
gallia is certain to be far more than a mere object of scientific interest or curiosity. why should we doubt
that the elementsof a comet which has once come intpcollision with the earth have by this time been
accuratelycalcuated wat our friend the professorhas done here, has been done likewise on the earth, where, beyond a
question, all mannerof expedients are being discussed as to the best way of mitigating the violence of a concussion
that must occur." the lieutenant s conjectureswere so reasonable that they commanded assent. gallia could scarcely be otherwise than
an object of terror to theinhabitants of the earth, who could by no means be certain that a second
collision would be comparatively so harmless as the first. even to the gallians themselves, much as they looked forward to
the event, the prospect wasnot unmixed with alarm, and they would rejoice in the invention of any device by
which it was likely the impetus of the shock might be deadened. christmas arrived, and was marked by appropriate religious
observance by evenone in the community, with the exception of the jew, who made a point of secluding himself more
obstinately than ever in the gloomy recesses of his retreat. to ben zoof the last week of the year was
full of bustle. the arrangements for the new year fete were entrusted to him, and he was anxious, in spite
of the resources of the gallia being so limited, to make the program for the great day as attractive as possible.
it was a matter of debate that night whether te professor should be invited to join the party; it was
scarcely likely that he would care to come, but, on the wole, it was felt to be advisable to ask
him. at first captain servadac thought of going in person with the invitation; but, remembering rosette s dislike to visitors,
he altered his mind, and sent young pablo up to te observatory with a formal note, requesting the pleasure of
professor rosette s company at the new year s fete . pablo was soon back, bringing no answer except that
the professor had told him that "to-day was the 125th of june, and that to-morrow would be the 1st of 
july." consequently, servadac and the count took it for granted that palmyrin rosette declined their invitation. an hour after sunrise
on new year s day, frenchmen, russians, spaniards, and little nina, as the representative of italy, sat down to a
feast such as never before had been seen in gallia. ben zoof the russian cook had quite surpassed themselves.
the wines, part of the dobryna s stores, were of excellent quality. those of the vintages of france and spain
were drunk in toasting their respective countries, and even russia was honored in a similar way by means of a 
few bottles of kummel. the company was more than contented--it was as jovial as ben zoof could desire; and the
ringing cheers that followed the great toast of the day--"a happy return to our mother earth," must fairly have startled
the professor in the silence of his observatory.  the dejeuner over, there still remained three hours of daylight. the sun
was approaching the zenith, but so dim and enfeebled were his rays that they were very unlike what had produced
the wines of bordeaux and burgundy which they had been enjoying, and it was necessary for all , before starting
upon an excursion that would last over nightfall, to envelop themselves in the thickest of clothing. full of spirits, the
party left the hive, and chattering and singing as they went, made their way down to the frozen shore, where
they fastened on their skates. once upon the ice, evenone followed his own fancy, and some singly, some in groups,
scattered themselves in all directions. captain servadac, the count, and the lieutenant were generally seen together. negrete and the spaniards,
now masters of their novel excercise, wandered fleetly and gracefully hither and thither, occasionally being out of sigt completely. the
russian sailors, following a northern custom, skated in file, maintaining their rank by means of a long pole passed under
their right arms, and this way they described a trackway of singular regularity. the two children, blithe as birds,
flitted about, now singly, now arm-in-arm, now joining the captain s party, now making a short peregrination by themselves, but
always full of life and spirit. as for ben zoof, he was here, there and everywhere, his imperturbable good temper
ensuring him a smile of welcome whenever he appeared. thus coursing rapidly over the icy plain, the whole party had
soon exceeded the line that made the horizon from the shore. first, the rocks of the coast were lost to
view; then the white crests of the cliffs were no longer to be seen; and at last, the summit of 
the volcano, with its corona of vapor, was entirely out of  sight. occasionally the skaters were obliged to stop to
recover their breath, but, fearful of frost-bite they almost instantly resumed their exercise, and proceeded nearly as far as gourbi
island before they thought about retracing their course. but night was coming on, and the sun was already sinking in
the east with the rapidity to which the residents on gallia were by this time well accustomed. the sunset upon
this contracted horizon was very remarkable. therewasnot a cloud nor a vapor to catch the tints of the 
declining beams; the surface of the ice did not, as a liquid sea would, reflect the last green ray of
light; but the radiant orb, enlarged by the effect of refraction, its circumference sharply defined against the sky, sank abruptly,
as though a trap had been opened in the ice for its reception. before the dayligt ended. captain servadac











